README.md, before:

> This README file is generated by Claude 3.5 Sonnet, which may contain some mistakes. 

# Integrating Energy-Efficient Train Control in Railway Vertical Alignment Optimization

This repository contains the code implementation for the academic paper titled "Integrating Energy-Efficient Train Control in Railway Vertical Alignment Optimization: A Novel Mixed-Integer Linear Programming Approach". The paper is currently under revision for potential publication in Transportation Research Part C.

## Project Overview

This research presents a novel approach to optimize railway track design and train control strategies simultaneously. The project aims to minimize construction costs and energy consumption while satisfying various operational constraints, using a Mixed-Integer Linear Programming (MILP) model.

## Key Components

1. Vertical Alignment Optimization (VAO)
2. Energy-Efficient Train Control (EETC)
3. Integrated VAO-EETC optimization
4. Ground profile generation and analysis
5. Heuristic algorithms for efficient solution generation

## Key Features

- Novel MILP approach for integrating EETC with VAO
- Generation and analysis of random and real ground profiles
- Support for multiple train types (e.g., CRH380AL, HXD1D, HXD2)
- Consideration of various constraints such as gradient limits, curve resistance, and tunnel effects
- Efficient heuristic algorithms for generating initial VAO and EETC solutions

## File Structure

- `ground.py`: Defines the `Ground` class for handling ground profile data and calculations
- `track.py`: Implements the `Track` class for track design and analysis
- `train.py`: Contains the `Train` class with train-specific parameters and methods
- `heuristic.py`: Provides efficient heuristic algorithms for generating VAO and EETC solutions
- `optimize.py`: Implements the main optimization models (VAO, EETC, EETC-VAO) using MILP
- `dataIO.py`: Handles data input/output operations

## Data Files

- `random_ground_data.json`: Contains parameters for generating random ground profiles
- `real_ground_data.json`: Stores data for real ground profiles
- Train-specific JSON files (e.g., `CRH380AL.json`, `HXD1D.json`, `HXD2.json`): Contain train parameters

## Usage

To use this system, you'll need to:

1. Set up the required environment (Python with necessary libraries such as NumPy, Matplotlib, and Gurobi)
2. Choose or generate a ground profile
3. Select a train type
4. Run the desired optimization model (VAO, EETC, or integrated EETC-VAO)

Example usage:

```python
from ground import Ground
from train import Train
from optimize import EETC_VAO
from heuristic import gen_warm_start_data

# Initialize ground and train objects
ground = Ground("gd2")
train = Train("CRH380AL")

# Generate initial solutions using heuristic algorithms
warm_start_data = gen_warm_start_data(ground, train)

# Run integrated EETC-VAO optimization
model = EETC_VAO(ground=ground, train=train, LC_on=True, VI_on=True, tcVI_on=True, warm_start_data=warm_start_data)
model.optimize()

# Analyze and visualize results
# model.plot_results()  # this will automatically execute inside EETC_VAO.optimize()
```

## Heuristic Algorithms

The `heuristic.py` file contains efficient algorithms for generating initial solutions:

1. VAO solution generation: Creates feasible vertical alignments considering various constraints
2. EETC solution generation: Develops energy-efficient train control strategies based on a given VAO solution

These heuristic solutions can be used as warm starts for the MILP model, potentially reducing computation time and improving solution quality.

## Dependencies

- Python 3.x
- NumPy
- Matplotlib
- Gurobi Optimizer

## Associated Research

This code repository is associated with the academic paper "Integrating Energy-Efficient Train Control in Railway Vertical Alignment Optimization: A Novel Mixed-Integer Linear Programming Approach". The paper is currently under revision for potential publication in Transportation Research Part C. For more details on the methodology, results, and conclusions, please refer to the paper once it is published.

## License

This project is licensed under a custom academic use license - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Note: Use of this software requires explicit permission from the author and appropriate citation of the associated research paper once published. The paper is currently under review, and citation details will be provided upon publication.

## Contact

For questions or further information, please contact SUN Yichen at [yichensun@my.swjtu.edu.cn].

Commit message:

Update README.md and LICENSE files, adding the reference bib text.

README.md, after:

# Integrating Energy-Efficient Train Control in Railway Vertical Alignment Optimization

This repository contains the code implementation for the academic paper titled "Integrating Energy-Efficient Train Control in Railway Vertical Alignment Optimization: A Novel Mixed-Integer Linear Programming Approach". The paper is currently under revision for potential publication in Transportation Research Part C.

## Project Overview

This research presents a novel approach to optimize railway track design and train control strategies simultaneously. The project aims to minimize construction costs and energy consumption while satisfying various operational constraints, using a Mixed-Integer Linear Programming (MILP) model.

## Key Components

1. Vertical Alignment Optimization (VAO)
2. Energy-Efficient Train Control (EETC)
3. Integrated VAO-EETC optimization
4. Ground profile generation and analysis
5. Heuristic algorithms for efficient solution generation

## Key Features

- Novel MILP approach for integrating EETC with VAO
- Generation and analysis of random and real ground profiles
- Support for multiple train types (e.g., CRH380AL, HXD1D, HXD2)
- Consideration of various constraints such as gradient limits, curve resistance, and tunnel effects
- Efficient heuristic algorithms for generating initial VAO and EETC solutions

## File Structure

- `ground.py`: Defines the `Ground` class for handling ground profile data and calculations
- `track.py`: Implements the `Track` class for track design and analysis
- `train.py`: Contains the `Train` class with train-specific parameters and methods
- `heuristic.py`: Provides efficient heuristic algorithms for generating VAO and EETC solutions
- `optimize.py`: Implements the main optimization models (VAO, EETC, EETC-VAO) using MILP
- `dataIO.py`: Handles data input/output operations

## Data Files

- `random_ground_data.json`: Contains parameters for generating random ground profiles
- `real_ground_data.json`: Stores data for real ground profiles
- Train-specific JSON files (e.g., `CRH380AL.json`, `HXD1D.json`, `HXD2.json`): Contain train parameters

## Usage

To use this system, you'll need to:

1. Set up the required environment (Python with necessary libraries such as NumPy, Matplotlib, and Gurobi)
2. Choose or generate a ground profile
3. Select a train type
4. Run the desired optimization model (VAO, EETC, or integrated EETC-VAO)

Example usage:

```python
from ground import Ground
from train import Train
from optimize import EETC_VAO
from heuristic import gen_warm_start_data

# Initialize ground and train objects
ground = Ground("gd2")
train = Train("CRH380AL")

# Generate initial solutions using heuristic algorithms
warm_start_data = gen_warm_start_data(ground, train)

# Run integrated EETC-VAO optimization
model = EETC_VAO(ground=ground, train=train, LC_on=True, VI_on=True, tcVI_on=True, warm_start_data=warm_start_data)
model.optimize()

# Analyze and visualize results
# model.plot_results()  # this will automatically execute inside EETC_VAO.optimize()
```

## Heuristic Algorithms

The `heuristic.py` file contains efficient algorithms for generating initial solutions:

1. VAO solution generation: Creates feasible vertical alignments considering various constraints
2. EETC solution generation: Develops energy-efficient train control strategies based on a given VAO solution

These heuristic solutions can be used as warm starts for the MILP model, potentially reducing computation time and improving solution quality.

## Dependencies

- Python 3.x
- NumPy
- Matplotlib
- Gurobi Optimizer

## Associated Research

This code repository is associated with the academic paper "Integrating Energy-Efficient Train Control in Railway Vertical Alignment Optimization: A Novel Mixed-Integer Linear Programming Approach". Please cite the paper as below:
```text
@article{SUN2025104943,
title = {Integrating Energy-Efficient Train Control in railway Vertical Alignment Optimization: A novel Mixed-Integer Linear Programming approach},
journal = {Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies},
volume = {171},
pages = {104943},
year = {2025},
issn = {0968-090X},
doi = {https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2024.104943},
url = {https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0968090X24004649},
author = {Yichen Sun and Shaoquan Ni and Dingjun Chen and Qing He and Shuangting Xu and Yan Gao and Tao Chen},
keywords = {Railway, Vertical Alignment Optimization, Energy-Efficient Train Control, Mixed-Integer Linear Programming, Optimization, Lifecycle cost},
}
```

## License

This project is licensed under a custom academic use license - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Note: Use of this software requires explicit permission from the author and appropriate citation of the associated research paper.

## Contact

For questions or further information, please contact SUN Yichen at [yichensun@my.swjtu.edu.cn].
